Rose had 2 brothers and 1 sister. William was 10 years younger and the black sheep. Born when Becky was close to 40. Had some learning disabilities. Enlisted in Army in the 50's. Maybe served in Germany.



Mom's maternal grandparents were 1st cousins. They went to Belgium during WWI or when the war ended. Joseph Schmulevith apprenticed with a taylor in Brussels. There was a stillborn child born in the US before Rose. Mom has a ship manifest from their trip. In Halifax, they had a museum of immigration, but Schumevitz has so many spelling variations they couldn't find it. Leah gave Ellen a letter from a Holocaust survivor in Australia spelled with a Z, and Ellen found the record. They landed in Montreal. When they got to Belgium they took a photo.

Doug has a brown bag with old photos. Bubby Becky had mine and Elizabeth's eyes. For room and board, Becky cleaned the boarding house in Brussels. He had a handsome photograph to his aunt in NY with a letter asking her to sponsor him coming to the US. She got the letter, but either never answered or it know the letter was received because (Rose as a young woman visited NY and Rose saw the photograph of Joseph). Joseph looked like Maurice Chevalier.

Joseph saved up enough money, went to Montreal by himself, and then made his way to Windsor, ON, to Detroit, and settled in Chicago. Stayed with Becky's 1st cousin Max Rosenwald and his wife Norma. Joseph worked at Hart Shaffner Marx and made sample suits. Highly skilled. He had a newspaper stand at Clark and Arthur in East Rogers Park. Also worked for a bookie as a runner and took in bets. When Rose was 12, they bought a deli on Roosevelt Rd. Rose lived in East Rogers park until 12 and then moved to the West side. Went to Hayt school. In 20's there were not many Jews there. It was upscale neighborhood, especially compared to the West Side.

Becky and Joseph bought a 12-unit courtyard building at Springfield and Roosevelt. Ellen lived there until she was 4.



Grandpa Louie owned a bakery 
